## Installation and Configuration ##

The Joe-E distribution provides a shell script that scans your source tree and produces a plain-text report of all Joe-E security violations found.  This is useful for unit testing (as explained above), or if you won't be using Eclipse for programming; some IDEs, such as Emacs, might be able to process the output of this script directly.

  1. Install Eclipse and install the Joe-E verifier plugin.  The easiest way to do this once you have downloaded the commandline JAR is to simply copy the file named like `org.joe_e_2.x.x.jar` somewhere Eclipse can find it.  For a downloaded copy of Eclipse, the best place to do this is the `eclipse/dropins` directory.  For a system-wide package-managed install of Eclipse, you can place it in the per-user `plugins` directory, which at least on Debian is located at `~/.eclipse/org.eclipse.platform_<version>/plugins`.  (See the instructions in GettingStarted for more info and options, including how to install the plugin from Eclipse Update.)
  1. Edit the `verify.sh` script from the directory where you untarred Joe-E, and fill in the three variables at the top of the file. For ECLIPSE\_PLUGINS\_DIR, make sure you put the **global** plugins directory (i.e., the location of the file `org.eclipse.equinox.launcher_<someversion>.jar`), not a per-user directory.  For the other two variables, use the full path to the appropriate file names from the tarball (e.g., `/some/where/library-2.x.x.jar` and `/some/where/taming-200xxxxx` respectively).
  1. Try it out from a command prompt: ` ./verify.sh -source /your/source/directory ` This should produce a list of errors on the standard output.

## Use ##

Invoke the `verify.sh` script from the root of the directory containing Joe-E
source code to verify, or use the `-source` option to specify a directory
root for the source code.  You may use the `CLASSPATH` environment variable
(or modify `verify.sh`) to specify additional classpath entries required to
compile your code.

The `verify.sh` script takes the following options.  They are actually defined
by the underlying program that the script calls, but their behavior here is
described assuming that verify.sh is used.

| `-source PATH` | The path to the source classes to be verified. Defaults to the current directory. |
|:---------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-taming PATH` | The location of the taming database.  This overrides the setting in verify.sh     |
| `-classpath PATH_OR_JAR[:PATH_OR_JAR]...` | The compilation classpath, which must include the Joe-E library.  Overrides the setting for the Joe-E library in verify.sh and the CLASSPATH environment variable |
| `-markasjoee`  |  Mark all packages as Joe-E packages.                                             |
| `-fail`        | Fail if any package isn't Joe-E.                                                  |
| `-verbose`     | Enable additional debugging output.                                               |

## Interpreting the Output ##

The output currently contains all warnings and errors generated by the Eclipse and Joe-E build tasks.

The final line gives a total number of errors encountered (compilation or Joe-E verification errors).  If it says "Build terminated with no errors" your code passed the verifier.  Note that unless you used the `-fail` or `-markasjoee` flag, some of the code analyzed may not have been declared as Joe-E and thus not verified.